---
layout: post
title: "MongoDB and Express"
---

**What is MongoDB**

MongoDB is an open-source document database, those documents can contains all the information related to the object. So during a search and the need to display information related to an object all the info can be obtained from the document in stead of gathering information between database tables.
MongoDB is also referred as a NoSQL database. In the early 2000s when the prices for storage dropped there was no longer a need to try to reduce duplicated data which was done with the relational database.
So for example when using a blog post in a SQL database we would have a separate table for the blog post and a separate table for the comments with the blog post id used as a foreign key in the comments table. In a NoSQL database we would simply embed the comments inside the document that contains the blog post. In that way in a NoSQL database the blog post and the comments are kept together.

**Install mongodb locally**

For my mern project to avoid problems with remote connections I decided to use a local mongodb installation.  
The installation itself is pretty simple, all that is needed when brew is installed is:  
'brew install mongodb-community@5.0'  
to install the latest version.

**Run mongodb as a service**

After installation you have two choices to run the mongodb. You can either run it manually from the command line, or run it as a service.  
To run mongodb on a Mac as a service you have to run the command:  
"brew services start mongodb-community@5.0"  
The '5.0' can differ depending on your installation.

After this mongodb will run in the background.
The normal services commands are valid.
- stop the service  
    'brew services stop mongodb-community@5.0'
- restart the service  
    'brew services restart mongodb-community@5.0'

**Installing needed dependencies**


